


ChatGPT is an artificial intelligence. Does that mean it's not a _real_ intelligence? What is it, to be intelligent? Could we ever make something non-human that is 'really' intelligent?

I find myself at a bit of a loss to know how to answer these questions. The goal in this chapter is to unpick the knot which they represent, getting us to a small set of distinct, clearer questions. None of these will be easy, but at least we will have a better sense of where we stand relative to them.


Assumption: No Magic

Before embarking, we need to ensure we're standing in the same place. Everything in what follows presupposes that our brains are mere physical objects. All of the deliberate movements and sounds we make are caused by the physical goings-on inside our craniums, and none of these is anything magical. Science works. This baseline assumption is non-negotiable, for me. You may not think this, in which case we could have an interesting discussion about our disagreement. But it would be a topic for another day.

I will assume something in fact a bit stronger than this, which is that the question as to how we come to utter the words we do, etc., is all explainable with contemporary science. It's not the case that there's something about the way the molecules and other structures in our brains are arrayed which somehow unleashes esoteric phenomena not so-far understood by physical science, maybe some hitherto unknown quantum specialness. At the level of physics, it's all just normal, familiar stuff going on in the grey matter. How those myriad, molecular-level physical processes combine to cause us to speak is a complex and fascinating problem, but our solving it won't require the physics, chemistry or biology books to be re-written.

I won't try to defend these assumptions, except to say I think it's highly unlikely that there's something special about the physical matter between our ears which sets it apart, at the level of basic physical law, from everything else in the world. Notice that if we doubt the stronger assumption, then we are committed to the scientifically testable prediction that there are events- presumably molecular-level events- within our brains which contemporary scientific knowledge cannot explain. I find this implausible. And if we doubt even the weaker assumption, then we are committed to the existence of local, routinely occurring, outright violations of the laws of physics, detectable by scientific scrutiny.

[example of theorist who subscribes to this view?]


Our Subject Matter

